README.md, before:

# Agora Land Records Archive

Welcome to the Agora Land Records Archive. This archive records changes to Estates - entities defined in the rules of Agora that operate much like real estate.

This archive operates in three parts.

## Documents

The `documents` directory contains unaltered copies of original documents. For the most part, these are complete emails, including headers, as delivered. They are filed using a document-specific unique identifier:

* Documents originating as email are named for their Message-ID, with the suffix `.eml`.

To file a new document:

1. Drop the original, under any name with the correct suffix, in the `documents` directory.

2. Run `bin/file-document <path to document>` using the file-document script in this repository. This will canonicalize the document's name, or abort if a document with the same canonical name already exists.

## Estates

The `estates` directory contains one directory per Estate, as defined by the rules, documenting the history of that Estate. Each event is recorded as a group of files, based on the timestamp of the event:

* `YYYY-MM-DD-hh:mm:ss.eml` is a symbolic link to the original document in the `documents` directory.

* `YYYY-MM-DD-hh:mm:ss.yaml` is a YAML file containing two keys:

    * The `event` key, describing the event. This presently contains a single key, `summary`, containing a one-line prose description of the event.

    * The `diff` key, describing the changes to the state of the Estate's properties. This is a YAML encoding of an RFC 7386 JSON Merge-Patch object, which can be applied in sequence to build a YAML representation of the Estate.

All timestamps are in UTC.

The YAML representation of an estate describes its properties at a specific point in time. It can be computed by starting with an empty YAML document and applying the diff section, as a JSON Merge-Patch document, of each event, in chronological order. The resulting object has, at present, two important keys:

* `name`, giving the short name of the Estate, and

* `owner`, naming the entity which owns the Estate.

To create a new event from a document:

1. File the document.

2. Run `bin/link-event <path to document> <path to estate>`. If the timestamp cannot be detected, or needs to be overridden, use the `--timestamp` option with an ISO 8601 timestamp.

3. Edit the resulting YAML file.

## Reports

The `reports` directory contains subdirectories for each report required by the rules for the office of Surveyor. The contents of these directories are date-stamped report editions, as plain text, plus an optional draft of the next report that will be sent.

For the office of Surveyor, _all_ reports are generated from the data in the `estates` and `documents` directory programmatically. Tweaks may be applied before transmission but should be kept to a bare minimum.

## Automation

Much of the work of operating this archive is handled by a set of Python programs contained in this repository. To run them, you will need:

* A Python 3 installation (version 3.6.0 or later).

To set them up, or to install updated dependencies:

1. Create and activate a virtualenv:

        python3.6 -m venv .venv
        source .venv/bin/activate

2. Install libraries:

        pip install -r requirements.txt

3. You're done!

The programs are contained in the `bin` directory, and respond with basic usage information when invoked as `PROGRAM --help`.

Commit message:

Extracted the guts of the scripts into a library.
This entailed restructuring the per-Estate collections, a bit, to make them easier to reason about and to make the script bodies a bit more regular. The old structure:

* `collection`: the root of an event collection
    * `collection/TIMESTAMP`: document link
    * `collection/TIMESTAMP.yaml`: event metadata

Hard to parse with `readdir` and friends, because each entry is paired.

New structure:

* `collection`: still the root of an event collection
    * `collection/TIMESTAMP`: the root of a single event
        * `collection/TIMESTAMP/document`: document link
        * `collection/TIMESTAMP/event.yaml`: event metadata

No more pairs.

The existing collections have been rearranged accordingly.

README.md, after:

# Agora Land Records Archive

Welcome to the Agora Land Records Archive. This archive records changes to Estates - entities defined in the rules of Agora that operate much like real estate.

This archive operates in three parts.

## Documents

The `documents` directory contains unaltered copies of original documents. For the most part, these are complete emails, including headers, as delivered. They are filed using a document-specific unique identifier:

* Documents originating as email are named for their Message-ID, with the suffix `.eml`.

To file a new document:

1. Drop the original, under any name with the correct suffix, in the `documents` directory.

2. Run `bin/file-document <path to document>` using the file-document script in this repository. This will canonicalize the document's name, or abort if a document with the same canonical name already exists.

## Estates

The `estates` directory contains one directory per Estate, as defined
by the rules, documenting the history of that Estate. Each event is
recorded as a subdirectory, whose name is the ISO 8601 timestamp of the
event. The following files exist in each event directory:

* `document` is a symbolic link to the original document in the `documents` directory.

* `event.yaml` is a YAML file containing two keys:

    * The `event` key, describing the event. This presently contains a single key, `summary`, containing a one-line prose description of the event.

    * The `diff` key, describing the changes to the state of the Estate's properties. This is a YAML encoding of an RFC 7386 JSON Merge-Patch object, which can be applied in sequence to build a YAML representation of the Estate.

All timestamps are in UTC.

The YAML representation of an estate describes its properties at a specific point in time. It can be computed by starting with an empty YAML document and applying the diff section, as a JSON Merge-Patch document, of each event, in chronological order. The resulting object has, at present, two important keys:

* `name`, giving the short name of the Estate, and

* `owner`, naming the entity which owns the Estate.

To create a new event from a document:

1. File the document.

2. Run `bin/link-event <path to document> <path to estate>`. If the timestamp cannot be detected, or needs to be overridden, use the `--timestamp` option with an ISO 8601 timestamp.

3. Edit the resulting YAML file.

## Reports

The `reports` directory contains subdirectories for each report required by the rules for the office of Surveyor. The contents of these directories are date-stamped report editions, as plain text, plus an optional draft of the next report that will be sent.

For the office of Surveyor, _all_ reports are generated from the data in the `estates` and `documents` directory programmatically. Tweaks may be applied before transmission but should be kept to a bare minimum.

## Automation

Much of the work of operating this archive is handled by a set of Python programs contained in this repository. To run them, you will need:

* A Python 3 installation (version 3.6.0 or later).

To set them up, or to install updated dependencies:

1. Create and activate a virtualenv:

        python3.6 -m venv .venv
        source .venv/bin/activate

2. Install libraries:

        pip install -r requirements.txt

3. You're done!

The programs are contained in the `bin` directory, and respond with basic usage information when invoked as `PROGRAM --help`.

To add new libraries:

1. Install them in the virtualenv:

        pip install NAME

2. Update `requirements.txt`:

        pip freeze > requirements.txt
